Java Architecture
    
  Compilation and interpretation in java:
     Java combines both the approaches of compilation and interpretation.first,java compiler compiles the sourcecode into bytecode.
     At the runtime,JVM interprets this bytecode and generates machine code which will be directly executed by the machine in which java program runs.
     so,java is both compiled and interpreted language.
                                  

                       soure code 
                            |
                    java compiler
                            |
                      byte code----JVM---OS

   JVM:
     JVM is a component which provides an environment for running java programs.
     JVM interprets the bytecode into machine code which will be executed the machine in which the java programs runs.

   Java is platform independent:
     Platform independence is one of the main advantage of java.
     java is portable because the same java program can be executed in multiple platforms without making any changes in the sourcecode.
     write once and run anywhere.java code is compiled by the java compiler and generates the bytecode.
     this bytecode will be stored in classfiles.JVM is unique for each platform though JVM is unique for each platform,this makes java platform independent.

   JRE:
     Java runtime environment contains JVM,class libraries and other components.
     jre performs the following taskes *loads the class(this is done by the class loader).
                                       *verifies the bytecode(this is done by the bytecode verifier).
                                       *interprets the bytecode(this is done by the jvm).
   Class loader:
     Class loader loads all the class files required to execute the program. 
     Class loader makes the program secure by separating the namespace for the classes obtained through the network from the classes available locally. 
  
   Byte code verifier:
      The bytecode verifier verifies the byte code to see if any security problems are there in the code. It checks the byte code and ensures the followings:
      The code follows JVM specifications.
      There is no unauthorized access to memory.
      The code does not cause any stack overflows.
      There are no illegal data conversions in the code such as float to object references.
      Once this code is verified and proven that there is no security issues with the code, 
      JVM will convert the byte code into machine code which will be directly executed by the machine in which the Java program runs.
   
   JIT:
     JUST-IN-TIME is a component which helps the program execution to happen faster.

   Java is secure as the byte code is inspected carefully before execution by JRE.  
   which is mainly done by the class loader and byte code verifier. 
   
   Garbage collection:
       Garbage collection is a process by which java achieves better memory management.
